feat: opstack (part one) (#1469)
wagmi-dev/viem: site/docs/op-stack/estimateContractL1Gas.md

---
head:
  - - meta
    - property: og:title
      content: estimateContractL1Gas
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: Estimates the L1 gas to execute an L2 contract write.
  - - meta
    - property: og:description
      content: Estimates the L1 gas to execute an L2 contract write.
---

# estimateContractL1Gas

> Estimates the L1 gas to execute an L2 contract write.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Estimates the L1 data fee to execute an L2 contract write.
```
I think data fee is more correct here since it's the entire fee including the gas fee multiplier

## Usage

::: code-group

```ts [example.ts]
import { account, publicClient } from './config'
import { wagmiAbi } from './abi'

const l1Fee = await publicClient.estimateContractL1Gas({
  address: '0xFBA3912Ca04dd458c843e2EE08967fC04f3579c2',
  abi: wagmiAbi,
  functionName: 'mint',
  account,
})
```

```ts [abi.ts]
export const wagmiAbi = [
  ...
  {
    inputs: [],
    name: "mint",
    outputs: [{ name: "", type: "uint32" }],
    stateMutability: "view",
    type: "function",
  },
  ...
] as const;
```

```ts [config.ts]
import { createPublicClient, http } from 'viem'
import { privateKeyToAccount } from 'viem/accounts'
import { base } from 'viem/chains'
import { opStackPublicActions } from 'viem/opStack'

// JSON-RPC Account
export const account = '0xf39fd6e51aad88f6f4ce6ab8827279cfffb92266'
// Local Account
export const account = privateKeyToAccount(...)

export const publicClient = createPublicClient({
  chain: base,
  transport: http()
}).extend(opStackPublicActions)
```

:::

## Returns

`bigint`

> The L1 gas estimate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The L1 data fee estimate.
```
